## 2 SIGNAL PROCESSING

Signal processing begins with information from the environment activating a sensory receptor. As mentioned previously, these senses are made up of specialized cells in the human body, like computational sensory components. These components have the ability to aggregate data from physical changes, or stimuli from the environment.

### 2.1 Stimuli.
Stimuli can be both external and internal. Stimuli that aggregate data from outside of the human body are considered to be external and those that do from inside of the body are considered internal. External stimuli are most commonly experienced as: sensation/touch, vision, smell, taste, and sound. External stimuli can be experienced with different types of receptors inside of the sensory organ. For example, vision data from the environment is recorded by photoreceptors, which function similarly to computational “photo resistors”. These components capture the presence of light data or lack of light data that enters the retina. (Hecht, Shlar and Pirenne 1942) Internal stimuli are located deeper within the human body then external stimuli. They manage the main driving forces, within both human and computational systems. Homeostasis within the human body may include nutrient/ion levels in the blood, oxygen levels or water levels, while homeostasis within a computational system may include battery power and processor temperature. (Martin, Wallace and Fuchs 2001)

Each sensory component receives and transmits data in different ways. A sensory component can only capture stimulus data that pertains to that component. For example, the photo resistor that specializes in capturing the amount of light will not be able to capture the chemical reactions that result in taste and smell, and vice versa. All of these components, regardless of what type, have the sensitivity to capture the smallest effect of environment change, such as a fly gently landing on an arm, as well as much larger changes like a large object falling on a hand. (The Gale Group Inc. n.d.)

### 2.2 Receiving, Transforming & Relaying Data.
Data received by sensory components transform the data into an electrical signal either mechanically, using mechanotransduction or chemically using chemitransduction. (Martin, Wallace and Fuchs 2001) During mechanotransduction, components comprised of matrices interpret mechanical stimuli, most often as a result of sound and touch. As force is applied, ion channels in these components convert the stimulus into a signal that is then transmitted, and sometimes reshaping the organ. (Ingber 1997) (Janmey and McCulloch 2007) Similarly, during chemitransduction, chemical stimuli are received by components that also have ion channels. These channels are responsible for converting the stimulus into an electrical or chemical signal (Martin, Wallace and Fuchs 2001) Although these processes are slightly different, they both result in transforming the stimulus data into an electrical or chemical signal at the cellular level. Once the data is transformed to an electrical signal it is then transmitted through the nervous system on a pathway to the brain. When the signal reaches the brain, filtering of sensory data begins.

The brain is partitioned into different portions, or lobes. The partitions that are responsible for sensory information are: Frontal, Parietal, Occipital, and Temporal. The frontal lobe will determine similarities and differences between events and memories. It also filters and modifies emotional reactions to what is seen as a socially acceptable reaction for that event. (Hagmann, et al. 2008) The Parietal lobe processes data relating to the sense of touch, which also include pain and temperature, as well as, interpreting some aspects of interpreting visual stimuli, such as spatial relationships between objects. (Penfield and Rasmussen 1950) The Occipital lobe can be broken down into different sections that are all responsible for interpreting visual aspects such as, spatial frequency, motion perception, and color properties of the data received. (SparkNotes 2007) Finally, the Temporal lobe has a role in interpreting multiple types of sensor’s data. The auditory cortex, which is a portion within this lobe of the brain, receives data from sound sensors and processes the data into sounds, which are then recognized as words and speech.  The ventral portion of this lobe of the brain interprets visual data as recognizable objects, such as facial recognition. This lobe not only plays a role in processing visual and auditory data, it is also responsible for the storage of these events as new memories. (Smith 2007)

### 2.3 Recording To Memory.
As the brain processes sensory data, it is also stored in what is known as “sensory memory”. The data stored is “raw”, unprocessed data, conveyed by the signals sent from the sensory components, which provides the most comprehensive recording of the interaction. (Carlson 2010) Sensory memory is ultra short term, lasting only fraction of a second after the event has occurred, only to be replaced with a new set of sensory data.  While it is not stored for much time, it provides enough time for this data to be transferred to primary or active short-term memory (Coltheart 1980). Higher cognitive processes filter what information stored should be moved into primary short-term memory and active memory. From there it is again consolidated, and filtered where relevant pieces of information are transferred to long-term memory where they can be accessed by the brain when processing other sensory data as part of recognition.

### 2.4 Responding To Stimuli.
After processing, and storing sensory data, the respective areas of the nervous system can send one of two types of responses: excitatory or inhibitory. (Pitman 1984) Excitatory responses result in cells immediately communicating rapidly through neurons with impulses triggering a system response. Systems that are involved in these responses include, but are not limited to, muscular, endocrine and digestive. Some examples of systemic responses to excitatory responses may include: a muscle contraction as a response from a needle prick (caused by a release of calcium ions to bind to the muscle cell within the muscular system), increased heart rate from a loud sound (caused by the release of adrenaline in the endocrine system), or salivation at the sight or smell of food (caused by the release of digestive enzymes to aid in digestion). Inhibitory responses result in no communication, deliberately ignoring that data presented by that sensor. There are some studies within the brain inhibitory responses are actually due to slower communication between neurons, which can be due to higher processing tasks such as recognition. (Martin, Wallace and Fuchs 2001)

### 2.5 Galvanic Skin Response
Galvanic skin response, or GSR, is the measurement of electrodermal activity, or the amount of moisture released from our glands during signal processing within the body. Spikes in this activity are seen in the relay and transmission of sensory data, or as a response to stimuli.  For example, a spike can be seen from a pinprick, which can cause the sweat gland to release a small amount of water. Electrodermal activity is also responsive to many changes in human emotions. Fear, anger, shocked, and sexual arousal are some of the reactions will be reflected in changes in GSR measures.

Now with an understanding of the data that these sensors transmit, a further exploration can be made into how one can track these signals within the human body.
