## 1 INTRODUCTION

We are constrained by our perception of reality. How our bodies interpret data is the result of our brain processing the environment around us. Data from the environment is observed through our senses, or in computational terms “sensors”.  However, these sensors can act as filters, collecting the information presumed relevant, disregarding the information deemed irrelevant.  Inherently they are biased based on the past experiences and bandwidth of the subject.

The stimulus data collected from the environment triggers a response from the brain to throughout the body. Through the interaction with these “sensors,” experiences become a unique series of signals and chain reactions controlled by the nervous system. By collecting the environmental stimuli more comprehensively, as well as the biometric data created by the electrical and chemical reactions communicating these responses throughout the body from the brain, we are able to interpret those stimuli more directly and immediately, without taking user action and and engaging bodily responses consciously. Hence by looking further into ourselves for data we (the subject) can begin to break down signals and reactions, thus freeing our data from the interpretations to which the mind constrains us.

As we begin to explore tracking these interactions, we can utilize wearable technology that documents biometric activity. We feel the constraints of data limitations from companies pushing these products. Each snapshot of intimate communication within our bodies is documented through the sensor readings of wearable technologies. These processors present biological data to the subject through the perceptions and realities created by the goals of these companies. For example, a Fitbit, marketed for weight loss, presents interactions through quantity of steps and heart rates throughout the day. Polar, marketed for heart monitoring during exercise, focuses on optimizing heart rate to achieve a more substantial workout. Both of these companies push their own agenda in the communication of this data, but are the standards they set applicable to our own methodologies?

Constrained by marketing agendas, such as the ones mentioned above, data is exploited as these perceptions are shared or sold to other populations with ulterior motives. While revealing this data to a medical professional may aide the advancements made in modern medical treatments, it could also lead to negative repercussions. For instance, if an insurance company were given access to the personal data recorded though these wearable products, the company may change rates based on assumptions revealed through this data. This has negative effects if the assumptions made are incorrect. For example, if the insurance company assumes pregnancy based off of this data and raising rates when the subject is not actually pregnant. By taking control of our own biometric data, the possibilities of creating our own feedback cycles and loops from this data would be endless.

### 1.1 Sharing Our Emotional Selves Through Biometrics.
The concept behind feelin.it is to go beyond the realities given by companies, such as fitbit and Jawbone, empowering one to utilize these devices for more then just the agendas, such as weight loss. Feelin.it provides an insight of their emotions as told through biometrics, which record the intimate communications between their sensors and brain. By connecting the biometrics to emotional responses, one has the ability to track their emotions throughout the time as well as predict the emotion from current biometric data when wearing an activity tracker. This will help to uncover a broader view of how data is interpreted within the one’s body and allow for users to share each unique reality with whom they choose.

While sharing this data is not mandatory, as with other devices, this possibility presents the opportunities for relationships between users may be reinforced. Allowing for people shared on other’s data to check in from time to time. By building triggers to alert people of their friend’s status, creates opportunities of praise and support as needed. In addition to everyday use, it is also be a helpful tool for the caregivers of people who have Post Traumatic Stress Disorder or other disabilities, such as Autism. In each, tracking emotions, can lead to a greater understanding of what may cause an attack or meltdown. It may also be used as a tool to quantify changes in behavior over time. For example, if one has moderate anxiety, they can track frequency of attacks over a period of time for comparison.
In order for feelin.it to become a tool utilizing biometric data to give insight to a broader view of emotions, further investigations need to be made. These explorations will include: how data is interpreted within the body as a series of intimate responses and how this data can be tracked?
