# 3 TRACKING SIGNALS.

Retrieval, processing, and systemic responses of/to sensory data all use signals to communicate to other parts of the body. By tracking signals information can be used to help detect, diagnose, and monitor current or potential issues that may arise. In the human body this may relate to disease as noted in an increased temperature or fever. In either case tracking this data will facilitate and determine a course of treatment or solution to the issue.

## 3.1 History of Tracking Technologies.
It was not until 1815, that a French physician, named René Laënnec, invented the stethoscope. (New York Times 2012) This was the first milestone to be made in technologies to monitor the human. After this initial milestone, more achievements were made in advancing this technology for monitoring the body.
In 1874, Richard Caton, used a galvanometer to monitor the neural impulses of animals, leading to the development of an electroencephalogram, or EEG. In 1924, Hans Berger, a German physiologist and psychiatrist, expanded on Caton’s research and began monitoring human neural impulses, or brain activity. (New York Times 2012) EEG’s measure this activity through electrodes placed on the scalp of the subject. Since the electrodes are placed on top of the skin, not requiring surgery, this is seen as a noninvasive method. The electrodes record the voltage fluctuations resulting from communication of neural cells in the brain. (Niedermeyer and da Silva 2004) Since the voltage is measured through the cranial bone, skin and other areas of the brain, sometimes it causes too much interference to produce an accurate signal for certain areas of the brain. If the electrodes were attached to more internal sections of the brain, which are more intrusive, the noise would be minimal. (Schlögl , Slater and Pfurtschelle 2002)

Electromyography (EMG), developed in 1890, and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), began to develop in 1971. (New York Times 2012) EMGs measure muscle activity through electrodes on the skin, similarly to how both EEG and the electrode version of EKG function. (Kamen 2004) MRI utilizes strong magnetic fields and radio waves to created rapidly sequential images of the body. This technique can successfully show how the brain responds to stimuli, unlike EEGs.  In addition to its ability to show neural activity it also is able to complement the data of, EKGs, x-rays, and gastrointestinal testing. (Lam 2016) Since MRI technologies do not use radiation and offers a higher resolution image, it is often used over other testing choices that do. Due to the strong magnetic fields and radio waves MRIs have had complications when patients with large amounts of metal inside of their body, such as cochlear implants and pacemakers. (Hartwig , et al. 2009)

In 1977, the first wireless heart rate monitor was invented, as a training aid for a ski team. (New York Times 2012) Modern heart rate monitors utilize a transmitter, usually in the form of a chest strap, and a receiver. (Burke 1998) More recent heart rate monitors use infrared light to measure heart rate. The blood absorbs infrared light, and a receiver measures how much of the infrared light has been absorbed. These measurements carry the information of the pulse increasing blood flow as it pumps. This milestone marked the beginnings of a movement known as the Quantified Self.

The Quantified Self movement is the gaining knowledge of oneself by tracking one’s daily life. Gathering this data requires the use of wearable technology, incorporation of electronic components and sensors onto an accessory or an article of clothing. Each sensor utilized in these forms of technology is for picking up specific types of data signals from the body, as are the body sensors.
